---
title: Futurists Suffer Major Defeat as Referendum on Abolishing Samedagi Fails
subhed: Critics of the referendum claimed that abolishing the Samedagi in the name of modernization would undermine the cultural and political autonomy of the Jallaq community.
author: Peitur Johnsundr
featured-image: 
  path: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2021/09/25/world/25iceland1/merlin_195288555_5b3b2c64-78ba-4156-9ae3-a73c272499b9-superJumbo.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp
  cutline: Voters casting ballots in Tyrvhuln.
  credit: HÚN
layout: post
category: Politics
---

In what is being seen as a major political setback for the newly established futurist bloc of Hverland, the referendum to abolish the Samedagi was defeated. A total of 42.6% of voters supported the proposal, falling significantly short of a majority, with 57.4% opposing the abolition. The referendum was initiated by the new 5-party coalition in the Thjodting, whose members hold a variety of left-wing, transhumanist, techno-progressive, and modernist views. The coalition argued that the institution was resistant to technological and social change and consistently created obstacles to the implementation of modern governance practices in Hverland.

The Samedagi, or Jallaq Parliament, is a traditional assembly of the Jallaq people, who make up about 3% of the population of Hverland. It is a key institution for the community, which has a long history of self-governance and cultural autonomy. The Samedagi is responsible for managing the affairs of the Jallaq people, including the administration of justice, the preservation of cultural heritage, and the promotion of the Jallaq way of life. The Jallaq are considered some of the most fervent opponents of transhumanism and techno-progressivism in Hverland, and the Samedagi is seen by many as a bulwark against the unwelcome encroachment of Hverlandic modernity on Jallaq culture.

For instance, last year, when the Thjodting passed a law requiring all citizens to have a microchip implanted in their bodies for identification purposes, the Samedagi issued a "declaration of non-compliance," stating that the law violated the Jallaq people's right to cultural integrity (Jallaq culture opposes any "non-natural" instruments to be implanted in the body). The bioconservative parties attempted to carve out an exemption for the Jallaq community, but the futurist majority overrode the exemption, arguing that it was discriminatory and that all citizens should be subject to the same laws. The conflict led to a Supreme Court case, which dismissed the entire law as unconstitutional.

The Samedagi also played a key role in the successful campaign to ban the use of facial recognition technology in public spaces in Hverland, as well as the campaign to prevent the construction of a new data center in Heimili plass. Critics of the Samedagi argue that these actions are examples of the institution's obstructionist tendencies and its resistance to progress.

The referendum was initiated by Spirit of Innovation, a transhumanist and technoutopianist party that entered the Thjodting for the first time in the 2023 election. The party's leader, Hjorleifur Hjorleifursundr, said that a small minority of the population should not be allowed to hold back the country's progress. He argued that the Samedagi was a "special interest group" that was preventing Hverland from embracing the future. "I don't understand why we should be held back by a group of people who refuse to adapt to the modern world," he said. "The Samedagi is an anachronism that has no place in the 21st century." Before his election, Hjorleifur had a history of controversial statements about the Jallaq community, including calling them "backward" and "primitive."

Following the 2023 election, the Spirit of Innovation joined as a junior member of a coalition with several other left-wing and futurist parties, including the Greens and Futurists, the Social Democratic Party, the Liberals, and the Urban Progressives. The coalition holds a slim one-seat majority in the Thjodting. This election marked the first time that the futurist bloc had a majority in the Thjodting, defeating the long-standing leadership of the Natural Balance party, which had been in power for over a decade with support from A Nation to Preserve, Farmers and Fishers, and the United Christians. 

