---
title: Hverfolk in Tyrvhuln Hope for Change, But History of Institutional Apathy Looms Large  
subhed: The largest concentration of Hverfolk in Tyrvhuln is in the Heimili plass neighborhood, where a recent knife attack has left many on edge. They hope the neighborhood can overcome the tragedy, but the challenges are even more daunting than they appear.
author: Peitur Johnsundr
featured-image: 
  path: https://www.arctictoday.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/2021-04-02T175419Z_2023307521_RC2TNM9JMOL4_RTRMADP_3_GREENLAND-DAILYLIFE-scaled.jpeg
  cutline: 
  credit: HÚN
layout: post
category: Capital
---

The Hverfolk are no strangers to adversity. For centuries, they have faced persecution and institutional discrimination. But the recent knife attack in Tyrvhuln has left many in the Hverfolk community on edge. The attack took place in the Heimili plass neighborhood, which is home over 500 Hverfolk, or 7% of the total population. This is by far the largest concentration of Hverfolk in Tyrvhuln. One of the victims was a 67-year-old Hverfolk elder, who was stabbed outside of the grocery store.

The Heimili plass neighborhood is the least affluent in the city, with higher than average rates of unemployment and poverty. Poverty disproportionately affects the Hverfolk population. Statistics Hverland estimates that 40% of Hverfolk in Heimili plass live below the poverty line, compared to 8% of Hvlanders. The Hverfolk in Heimili plass are mostly working-class, with many employed in the fishing industry or as laborers in the city's factories. Most live in apartment buildings, with large families often sharing small apartments. A fire in 2022 destroyed two apartment buildings, displacing 13 Hverfolk families. Many have yet to find permanent housing.

Many Hverfolk feel resentful of the lack of investment in the neighborhood. The government has historically neglected Heimili plass, with fewer public services and infrastructure projects than in other parts of the city. Many Hverfolk feel that they are treated as second-class citizens, with little access to quality education, healthcare, or social services. 

But now, many Hverfolk also blame the number of immigrants for the lack of opportunities. "We are the forgotten people," says 45-year-old Hverfolk resident Sigrun Jonsdottir. "We have been here for generations, but we are still treated as outsiders. Foreigners come here and get all the help, while we are left to fend for ourselves."

In the last 4 or 5 years, the neighborhood has added nearly 350 non-Hverlanders, mostly from the Middle East. Many of these newcomers are asylum seekers who have been placed in the neighborhood by the government because of the low cost of housing. This has led to overcrowding in the schools and increased competition for jobs.

Prior to 2017, the neighborhood was still one of the most diverse in the city, with a mix of Hverfolk, Hverlander, and immigrants mainly from Ukraine, Poland, Argentina, and Uruguay. But the influx of the asylum seekers has changed the neighborhood's demographics. Many Hverfolk feel that the newcomers are taking advantage of the system and are not contributing to the community in the same way that the Eastern European immigrants did. This has led to increased tensions between the Hverfolk and the newcomers, and there have been several incidents of violence in the neighborhood in recent years. The knife attack is just the latest in a series of violent incidents, albeit the most serious.

The Hverfolk in Heimili plass are now calling for more police presence in the neighborhood and for the government to invest in social programs to help the community. They are also calling for stricter immigration policies to prevent more asylum seekers from being placed in the neighborhood. But many are skeptical that anything will change. "We have been asking for help for years, but no one listens," says Jonsdottir. "We are on our own."

The superindentent of state, Ulafur Stafansundr, released a plan last week to address the issues in Heimili plass. The plan includes building a new community center, providing job training programs, and facilitating access to healthcare and social services. But many Hverfolk are skeptical that the plan will be implemented. "We have heard promises before," says Jonsdottir. 

Heimili plass is a part of the Thjodting's Tyrvhuln West constituency, which elects 21 representatives, the largest number of any constituency. Since the 2022 election, the seat breakdown is as follows: Liberals (FM) 6, Social Democratic Party (SDF) 4, Centre Party (MF) 4, 

The neighborhood has three representatives on the city council: Unnsteinn Athalsteinsundr (LI), Bergthor Valbjornsundr (LI), and Jakub Kowalski (AL). Bergthor is chair of the council's Business, Housing & Zoning committee and has worked to find new housing for the families displaced by the fire. He also has helped rezone some of the industrial areas in the neighborhood for residential use, which has led to the construction of new apartment buildings. 