---
title: HverVision AI Program to Replace Only Child Psychiatrist Outside Capital Region
subhed: The only non-AI child psychiatrist located outside the capital region abruptly resigned this week due to ill health, leaving parents and other mental health providers entirely reliant on HverVision's AI program.
author: Peitur Johnsundr
featured-image: 
  path: https://industrywired.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/Robotics.jpg
  cutline: HverVision robot at Ljosvik allmenn sjukhus in Vaskdryft
  credit: HÚN
layout: post
category: Health
---

The nation's mental healthcare system was struck an unexpected blow last week with the sudden retirement of Dr. Einar Snorrasundr, the only remaining child psychiatrist working at Ljosvik allmenn sjukhus (LAS), the principal medical center outside of the capital region. Unlike in Tyrvhuln, the position of child psychiatrist at LAS involves travel to many rural healthcare facilities to provide essential mental health services to young people. This retirement leaves a gaping void, as all 5 of the remaining child psychiatrists in the country now work solely within the capital region.

Dr. Einar, 84, began working at LAS in 1981. He joined a team of two other psychiatrists who have both since retired. Both were replaced by HverVision's artificial intelligence program, which can provide diagnostic and treatment recommendations both in-person and via telemedicine. However, Dr. Einar refused to be replaced by the AI, arguing that children and adolescents require a human touch that cannot be replicated by a machine. He said the hospital administration would need to hire a new psychiatrist to replace him.

Dr. Einar reports that over the last three years, the workload became unsustainable and, before his departure, was caring for twice as many patients as the National Institute for Health Care Excellence recommends. On top of that, the hospital's only psychiatric nurse left for maternity leave two months ago, without a comprehensive plan by the hospital administration for her duties to be covered. Dr. Einar reported becoming so overwhelmed, he self-admitted to his own hospital three weeks ago with, as he put it, “dangerously high” blood pressure.

The former government had instructed LAS to begin seeking a replacement in late 2021, but the hospital administrator argued that HverVision's program would be sufficient to cover the gap. Dr. Einar, however, says that many of his patients and their parents insisted on seeing him, and not the AI program. If he retired, he said, no human would be available to provide care to these children. 

The current government, in power since 2023, has been reluctant to cover the costs of hiring new human providers, instead opting to expand the use of AI in healthcare. The Liberals, the largest of government parties, are split between the technorealist and futurist wings, but the other coalition parties are more homogeneous in their support for the AI.

Several parents are now reluctantly turning to HverVision. The advanced practice AI program was first released in 2018 to supplement routine adult visits for those unable to travel to Tyrvhuln or Vaskdryft. However, the government has since expanded the program and now uses it to replace most in-person visits and many tele-medicine visits as well. While the program has been successful for many adults, young people may not benefit to the same extent.

Dr. Sigrun Halldorsdotra, a child psychologist in Tyrvhuln, explains, "Children and adolescents require nuanced care and observation that cannot always be translated through an AI, be it in person or through a screen. While AI is of course a valuable tool, it cannot replace the human relationship that is vital for treating young patients."

Parents who insist their children get human support are now forced to turn to the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department of University Hospital (Universitetssykehus) in Tyrvhuln. However, the already long waiting list continues to grow, and with the outpatient department closing for four weeks this fall to further integrate AI into its services, the situation is becoming dire.

"The system is at breaking point," warns Dr. Sigrun. "We need to retain human-centered specialized care for our children. This is not an either-or situation; we can't rely solely on humans or AI to provide the care that children need. Both are needed."

The Hverlandic College of Mental Health Professionals has issued a scathing statement, calling on the Intendant for Health and Welfare to intervene. The College's statement reads: "The absence of a child psychiatrist in regions outside the capital is a disaster waiting to happen. Immediate and decisive action is necessary. Ideology must be put aside in favor of the well-being of our children."

The mental health care system's existing flaws are being exposed and exacerbated by this incidient. Critics argue that the government must not only replace the retiring psychiatrist at LAS but must also invest in a broader strategy to ensure a balance between human and AI care throughout the country.

"This issue is only going to get worse," warns Dr. Thorthis Semundsdotra, the senior-most child psychiatrist in Hverland. "Conversations about the future of mental health care in Hverland must be had now, before it's too late."