---
title: New Report Shows More People Diagnosed with Sleep Disorders
subhed: A new report published by the Office for Health and Welfare shows that the number of people diagnosed with sleep disorders has increased by 15% in the last year. Never have so many people been diagnosed in Hverland. 
author: Pétur Johnsundr
author-title: 
featured-image: 
  path: https://images.ctfassets.net/pjshm78m9jt4/114154_header/7df87514f0cfe7d6c802d1fea6fe2591/importedImage114154_header?fm=avif&fit=fill&w=830&h=467&q=80
  cutline: 10 year old Ólafur Jónsson was diagnosed with hypersomnia last month.
  credit: HÚN
layout: post
category: Health
---

A new report published by the Office for Health and Welfare shows that the number of people diagnosed with sleep disorders has increased by 15% in the last year. In 2022, the Hverland Health System (HH) reported a total of 593 new cases of sleep disorders. Last year, that number has increased to 850. This is the highest number of cases ever recorded in Hverland in one year, both in absolute numbers and per capita.

Due to Hverland's northern latitude, many residents experience sleep disturbances. The long winter nights and short summer nights can disrupt the body's natural sleep-wake cycle. This can lead to a variety of sleep disorders, including insomnia, hypersomnia, and circadian rhythm disorders. Because of this, HH has a large number of staff dedicated to sleep medicine and research.

What worries health officials is the increase in more serious sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea and narcolepsy. These disorders can have serious health consequences if left untreated. Sleep apnea, for example, is a condition in which a person stops breathing during sleep. This can lead to daytime fatigue, high blood pressure, and an increased risk of heart disease. Narcolepsy is a neurological disorder that causes excessive daytime sleepiness and sudden sleep attacks.

