---
title: Church Reiterates Position on Political Neutrality
subhed: The Church of Hverland has issued a statement reaffirming its commitment to political neutrality and civil discourse in Hverland.
author: Church of Hverland Public Affairs Office
author-title: 
featured-image: 
  path: https://www.pewresearch.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/20/2019/04/PF_19.04.30_churchTax_featured.png
  cutline: 
  credit: 
layout: post
category: Politics
---

In response to recent inquiries, the [Church of Hverland](/HUN/about/church) reiterates its well-established institutional neutrality regarding political parties and candidates. The Church does not seek to elect government officials, support or oppose political parties, or, generally, take sides in global conflicts. The Church is neutral in matters of politics within Hverland or between Hverland and the world’s many nations, lands and peoples. However, as an institution, it reserves the right to address issues it believes have significant moral consequences or that directly affect the mission, teachings or operations of the Church.

#### The Church does not:
* Endorse, promote or oppose political parties, candidates or platforms.
* Allow its buildings, membership lists or other resources to be used for partisan political purposes.
* Attempt to direct its members as to which candidate or party they should give their votes to.
* Attempt to direct or dictate to a government leader.

#### The Church does:
* Recognize a universal right to the “free exercise of conscience” and believes all individuals and institutions should be able to express publicly their views on issues facing society.
* Encourage its members to play a role as responsible citizens in their communities, including becoming informed about issues, voting in elections, participating in governance processes and (as they desire) seeking for elected, appointed or voluntary office.
* Request that candidates for office not imply that their candidacies or platforms are endorsed by the Church.
* Reserve the right as an institution to address, in a nonpartisan way, issues that it believes have significant community or moral consequences or that directly affect the interests of the Church.

#### Relationships with the Government
While the Church of Hverland is the national church of Hverland, it is a separate legal entity from the state and operates under its own governing structure. The Church is funded through taxes levied by the government, but participation in this funding is voluntary and residents may opt out of paying the church tax. The church tax helps fund the Church’s operations, including the construction and maintenance of church buildings, the salaries of clergy and staff, and other programs and services. Not all residents of Hverland are members of the Church, and the Church does not require residents to be members in order to pay the church tax. Residents who opt out of paying the church tax still pay the same amount of taxes as those who pay the church tax, but the portion that would have gone to the church is instead allocated to other government programs which are secular in nature.

In 2024, 87% of Hverland residents voluntarily paid the church tax.

#### Positions on moral issues
The Church of Hverland has taken positions on moral issues such as marriage, family, and sexuality. These positions are based on the Church’s interpretation of scripture and are not intended to be political statements and do not represent the government’s position on these issues. 

List of statements on issues:
- [Transhumanism](/HUN/about/church/transhumanism)