---
title: Intendant Bodil Sacked Following Trump Comments
subhed: Intendant for Relations, Bodil Marisiodotra, was sacked by the Superintendent of State after leaked comments surfaced. She hasn't commented on the situation.
author: Peitur Johnsundr
author-title: 
featured-image: 
  path: https://img.ilcdn.fi/l-3eCtBsIeo4hSXubg9b157HzTI=/full-fit-in/920x0/img-s3.ilcdn.fi/1b6aef331e17c3a825b09438ddcf46e44a07032e38b89696abef54498ce6cf06.jpg
  cutline: 
  credit: 
layout: post
category: Politics
---

While foreign leaders have been quick to congratulate President-Elect Donald Trump on his victory, the same cannot be said for the Hverlandic government. In a leaked conversation, [Intendant for Relations](/HUN/about/government/relations) Bodil Marisiodotra was heard calling Trump a "racist pig" and a "disgrace to the world." The comments were made in a private conversation with a friend, but were recorded and leaked to the press. She also said that since the US still uses the death penalty, they should "just execute him and be done with it."

The conversation was leaked before Hverlandic officials had a chance to congratulate Trump on his victory. [Ulafur Stafansundr](/HUN/about/people/ulafur-stafansundr) was quick to distance himself from the comments, saying that they were "unacceptable" and that "we do not condone such language." He also said that he sacked Bodil from her position as Intendant for Relations effective immediately. Her interim replacement will be Yngve Kravvyykdotra, a close ally of Ulafur.

"I have spoken with Bodil and she has agreed to step down from her position," he said. "We cannot have someone in such a high-ranking position making such comments about a foreign leader. We need to repair our relationship with the US and this is not the way to do it."

Hverland and the US have had a rocky relationship in the past, with the US criticizing Hverland's technology policies and placing sanctions on the country. The relationship soured even further following the 2023 election, when Hverland elected a techo-futurist government. 

Neither Bodil nor the [Greens and Futurists](/HUN/about/party/ks) have commented publicly on the situation. Other parties have been quick to distance themselves from her comments, with the Social Democrats saying that they "do not condone such language" and A Nation to Preserve saying that they "stand with the duly elected leader of the United States." [Eyrune Marisioradotra](/HUN/about/people/eyrune-marisioradotra) of Natural Balance said that she was "disappointed" in Bodil's comments and that they were "not representative of the Hverlandic people."